<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II: Events of a Night</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Events of a Night</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was late in the afternoon of a cloudy, windy autumn day, that I left the office of John Argyll, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Esq.</abbr>, in his company, to take tea and spend the evening in his family. I was a law-student in the office, and was favored with more than ordinary kindness by him, on account of a friendship that had existed between him and my deceased father. When young men, they had started out in life together, in equal circumstances; one had died early, just as fortune began to smile; the other lived to continue in well-earned prosperity. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll had never ceased to take an interest in the orphan son of his friend. He had aided my mother in giving me a collegiate education, and had taken me into his office to complete my law studies. Although I did not board at his house, I was almost like a member of the family. There was always a place for me at his table, with liberty to come and go when I pleased. This being Saturday, I was expected to go home with him, and stay over Sunday if I liked.</p>
			<p>We quickened our steps as a few large drops were sprinkled over us out of the darkening clouds.</p>
			<p>“It will be a rainy night,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll.</p>
			<p>“It may clear away yet,” I said, looking toward a rift in the west, through which the declining sun was pouring a silver stream. He shook his head doubtfully, and we hurried up the steps into the house, to escape the threatened drenching.</p>
			<p>Entering the parlors, we found no one but James, a nephew of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll, a young man of about my own age, lounging upon a sofa.</p>
			<p>“Where are the girls?”</p>
			<p>“They haven’t descended from the heavenly regions yet, uncle.”</p>
			<p>“Dressing themselves to death, I expect⁠—it’s Saturday evening, I remember,” smiled the indulgent father, passing on into the library.</p>
			<p>I sat down by the west window, and looked out at the coming storm. I did not like James Argyll much, nor he me; so that, as much as we were thrown together, our intercourse continued constrained. On this occasion, however, he seemed in excellent spirits, persisting in talking on all kinds of indifferent subjects despite of my brief replies. I was wondering when Eleanor would make her appearance.</p>
			<p>At last she came. I heard her silk dress rustle down the stairs, and my eyes were upon her when she entered the room. She was dressed with unusual care, and her face wore a brilliant, expectant smile. The smile was for neither of us. Perhaps James thought of it; I am sure I did, with secret suffering⁠—with a sharp pang which I was ashamed of, and fought inwardly to conquer.</p>
			<p>She spoke pleasantly to both of us, but with a preoccupied air not flattering to our vanity. Too restless to sit, she paced up and down the length of the parlors, seeming to radiate light as she walked, like some superb jewel⁠—so lustrous was her countenance and so fine her costume. Little smiles would sparkle about her lips, little trills of song break forth, as if she were unconscious of observers. She had a right to be glad; she appeared to exult in her own beauty and happiness.</p>
			<p>Presently she came to the window, and as she stood by my side, a burst of glory streamed through the fast-closing clouds, enveloping her in a golden atmosphere, tinting her black hair with purple, flushing her clear cheeks and the pearls about her throat. The fragrance of the rose she wore on her breast mingled with the light; for a moment I was thrilled and overpowered; but the dark-blue eyes were not looking on me⁠—they were regarding the weather.</p>
			<p>“How provoking that it should rain tonight,” she said, and as the slight cloud of vexation swept over her face, the blackness of night closed over the gleam of sunset, so suddenly that we could hardly discern each other.</p>
			<p>“The rain will not keep Moreland away,” I answered.</p>
			<p>“Of course not⁠—but I don’t want him to get wet walking up from the depot; and Billy has put up the carriage in view of the storm.”</p>
			<p>At that moment a wild gust of wind smote the house so that it shook, and the rain came down with a roar that was deafening. Eleanor rung for lights.</p>
			<p>“Tell cook to be sure and have chocolate for supper⁠—and cream for the peaches,” she said to the servant who came in to light the gas.</p>
			<p>The girl smiled; she knew, in common with her mistress, who it was preferred chocolate and liked cream with peaches; the love of a woman, however sublime in some of its qualities, never fails in the tender domestic instincts which delight in promoting the comfort and personal tastes of its object.</p>
			<p>“We need not have troubled ourselves to wear our new dresses,” pouted Mary, the younger sister, who had followed Eleanor downstairs “there will be nobody here tonight.”</p>
			<p>Both James and myself objected to being dubbed nobody. The willful young beauty said all the gay things she pleased, telling us she certainly should not have worn her blue silks, nor puffed her hair for us⁠—</p>
			<p>“⁠—Nor for Henry Moreland either⁠—he never looks at me after the first minute. Engaged people are so stupid! I wish he and Eleanor would make an end of it. If I’m ever going to be bridemaid, I want to be⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And a clear field afterward, Miss Molly,” jested her cousin. “Come! play that new polka for me.”</p>
			<p>“You couldn’t hear it if I did. The rain is playing a polka this evening, and the wind is dancing to it.”</p>
			<p>He laughed loudly⁠—more loudly than the idle fancy warranted. “Let us see if we can not make more noise than the storm,” he said, going to the piano and thumping out the most thunderous piece that he could recall. I was not a musician, but it seemed to me there were more discords than the law of harmony allowed; and Mary put her hands over her ears, and ran away to the end of the room.</p>
			<p>For the next half-hour the rain came down in wide sheets, flapping against the windows, as the wind blew it hither and thither. James continued at the piano, and Eleanor moved restlessly about, stealing glances, now and then, at her tiny watch.</p>
			<p>All at once there occurred one of those pauses which precede the fresh outbreaking of a storm; as if startled by the sudden lull, James Argyll paused in his playing; just then the shrill whistle of the locomotive pierced the silence with more than usual power, as the evening train swept around the curve of the hill not a quarter of a mile away, and rushed on into the depot in the lower part of the village.</p>
			<p>There is something unearthly in the scream of the “steam-eagle,” especially when heard at night. He seems like a sentient thing, with a will of his own, unbending and irresistible; and his cry is threatening and defiant. This night it rose upon the storm prolonged and doleful.</p>
			<p>I know not how it sounded to the others, but to me, whose imagination was already wrought upon by the tempest and by the presence of the woman I hopelessly loved, it came with an effect perfectly overwhelming; it filled the air, even the perfumed, lighted air of the parlor, full of a dismal wail. It threatened⁠—I know not what. It warned against some strange, unseen disaster. Then it sunk into a hopeless cry, so full of mortal anguish, that I involuntarily put my fingers to my ears. Perhaps James felt something of the same thing, for he started from the piano-stool, walked twice or thrice across the floor, then flung himself again upon the sofa, and for a long time sat with his eyes shaded, neither speaking nor stirring.</p>
			<p>Eleanor, with maiden artifice, took up a book, and composed herself to pretend to read; she would not have her lover to know that she had been so restless while awaiting his coming. Only Mary fluttered about like a hummingbird, diving into the sweets of things, the music, the flowers, whatever had honey in it; and teasing me in the intervals.</p>
			<p>I have said that I loved Eleanor. I did, secretly, in silence and regret, against my judgment and will, and because I could not help it. I was quite certain that James loved her also, and I felt sorry for him; sympathy was taught me by my own sufferings, though I had never felt attracted toward his character. He seemed to me to be rather sullen in temper, as well as selfish; and then again I reproached myself for uncharitableness; it might have been his circumstances which rendered him morose⁠—he was dependent upon his uncle⁠—and his unhappiness which made him appear unamiable.</p>
			<p>I loved, without a particle of hope. Eleanor was engaged to a young gentleman in every way worthy of her: of fine demeanor, high social position, and unblemished moral character. As much as her many admirers may have envied Henry Moreland, they could not dislike him. To see the young couple together was to feel that theirs would be one of those “matches made in heaven”⁠—in age, character, worldly circumstances, beauty and cultivation, there was a rare correspondence.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Moreland was engaged with his father in a banking business in the city of New York. They owned a summer villa in Blankville, and it had been during his week of summer idleness here that he had made the acquaintance of Eleanor Argyll.</p>
			<p>At this season of the year his business kept him in the city; but he was in the habit of coming out every Saturday afternoon and spending Sabbath at the house of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll, the marriage which was to terminate a betrothal of nearly two years being now not very far away. On her nineteenth birthday, which came in December, Eleanor was to be married.</p>
			<p>Another half-hour passed away and the expected guest did not arrive. He usually reached the house in fifteen minutes after the arrival of the train; I could see that his betrothed was playing nervously with her watch-chain, though she kept her eyes fixed upon her book.</p>
			<p>“Come, let us have tea; I am hungry,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll, coming out of the library. “I had a long ride after dinner. No use waiting, Eleanor⁠—he won’t be here tonight”⁠—he pinched her cheek to express his sympathy for her disappointment⁠—“a little shower didn’t use to keep beaux away when I was a boy.”</p>
			<p>“A <em>little</em> rain, papa! I never heard such a torrent before; besides, it was not the storm, of course, for he would have already taken the cars before it commenced.”</p>
			<p>“To be sure! to be sure! defend your sweetheart, Ella⁠—that’s right! But it may have been raining down there half the day⁠—the storm comes from that direction. James, are you asleep?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll soon see,” cried Mary, pulling away the hand from her cousin’s face⁠—“why, James, what is the matter?”</p>
			<p>Her question caused us all to look at him; his face was of an ashy paleness; his eyes burning like coals of fire.</p>
			<p>“Nothing is the matter! I’ve been half asleep,” he answered, laughing, and springing to his feet. “Molly, shall I have the honor?”⁠—she took his offered arm, and we went in to tea.</p>
			<p>The sight of the well-ordered table, at the head of which Eleanor presided, the silver, the lights, the odor of the chocolate overpowering the fainter fragrance of the tea, was enough to banish thoughts of the tempest raging without, saving just enough consciousness of it to enhance the enjoyment of the luxury within.</p>
			<p>Even Eleanor could not be cold to the warmth and comfort of the hour; the tears, which at first she could hardly keep out of her proud blue eyes, went back to their sources; she made an effort to be gay, and succeeded in being very charming. I think she still hoped he had been delayed at the village; and that there would be a note for her at the post-office, explaining his absence.</p>
			<p>For once, the usually kind, considerate girl was selfish. Severe as was the storm, she insisted upon sending a servant to the office; she could not be kept in suspense until Monday.</p>
			<p>She would hardly believe his statement, upon his return, that the mail had been changed, and there was really no message whatever.</p>
			<p>We went back to the parlor and passed a merry evening.</p>
			<p>A touch of chagrin, a fear that we should suspect how deeply she was disappointed, caused Eleanor to appear in unusually high spirits. She sung whatever I asked of her; she played some delicious music; she parried the wit of others with keener and brighter repartee; the roses bloomed on her cheeks, the stars rose in her eyes. It was not an altogether happy excitement; I knew that pride and loneliness were at the bottom of it; but it made her brilliantly beautiful. I wondered what Moreland would feel to see her so lovely⁠—I almost regretted that he was not there.</p>
			<p>James, too, was in an exultant mood.</p>
			<p>It was late when we retired. I was in a state of mental activity which kept me awake for hours after. I never heard it rain as it did that night⁠—the water seemed to come down in solid masses⁠—and, occasionally, the wind shook the strong mansion as if it were a child. I could not sleep. There was something awful in the storm. If I had had a touch of superstition about me, I should have said that spirits were abroad.</p>
			<p>A healthy man, of a somewhat vivid imagination, but without nervousness, unknowing bodily fear, I was still affected strangely. I shuddered in my soft bed; the wild shriek of the locomotive lingered in my ears; <em>something besides rain seemed beating at the windows</em>. Ah, my God! I knew afterward what it was. It was a human soul, disembodied, lingering about the place on earth most dear to it. The rest of the household slept well, so far as I could judge, by its silence and deep repose.</p>
			<p>Toward morning I fell asleep; when I awoke the rain was over; the sun shone brightly; the ground was covered with gay autumn leaves shaken down by the wind and rain; the day promised well. I shook off the impressions of the darkness, dressed myself quickly, for the breakfast-bell rung, and descending, joined the family of my host at the table. In the midst of our cheerful repast, the doorbell rung. Eleanor started; the thought that her lover might have stayed at the hotel adjoining the depot on account of the rain, must have crossed her mind, for a rapid blush rose to her cheeks, and she involuntarily put up a hand to the dark braids of her hair as if to give them a more graceful touch. The servant came in, saying that a man at the door wished to speak with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Redfield.</p>
			<p>“He says it’s important, and can’t wait, sir.”</p>
			<p>We arose and went out into the hall, closing the door of the breakfast-room behind us.</p>
			<p>“I’m very sorry⁠—I’ve got bad news⁠—I hope you won’t”⁠—stammered the messenger, a servant from the hotel.</p>
			<p>“What is it?” demanded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll.</p>
			<p>“The young gentleman that comes here⁠—Moreland’s his name, I believe⁠—was found dead on the road this morning.”</p>
			<p>“Dead!”</p>
			<p>“They want you to come down to the inquest. They’ve got him in a room of our house. They think it’s a fit⁠—there’s no marks of anything.”</p>
			<p>The father and I looked at each other; the lips of both were quivering; we both thought of Eleanor.</p>
			<p>“What shall I do?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll. I haven’t had time to think.”</p>
			<p>“I can not⁠—I can not⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Nor I⁠—not just yet. Sarah, tell the young ladies we have gone out a short time on business⁠—and don’t you breathe what you have heard. Don’t let anyone in until we return⁠—don’t allow anyone to see Miss Eleanor. Be prudent.”</p>
			<p>Her frightened face did not promise much for her discretion.</p>
			<p>Hastening to the hotel, already surrounded by many people, we found the distressing message too true. Upon a lounge, in a private sitting-room, lay the body of Henry Moreland! The coroner and a couple of physicians had already arrived. It was their opinion that he had died from natural causes, as there was not the least evidence of violence to be seen. The face was as pleasant as in slumber; we could hardly believe him dead until we touched the icy forehead, about which the thick ringlets of brown hair clung, saturated with rain.</p>
			<p>“What’s this?” exclaimed one, as we began to relieve the corpse of its wet garments, for the purpose of a further examination. It was a stab in the back. Not a drop of blood⁠—only a small triangular hole in the cloak, through the other clothing, into the body. The investigation soon revealed the nature of the death-wound; it had been given by a fine, sharp dirk or stiletto. So firm and forcible had been the blow that it had pierced the lung and struck the rib with sufficient force to break the blade of the weapon, about three-quarters of an inch of the point of which was found in the wound. Death must have been instantaneous. The victim had fallen forward upon his face, bleeding inwardly, which accounted for no blood having been at first perceived; and as he had fallen, so he had lain through all the drenching storm of that miserable night. When discovered by the first passerby, after daylight, he was lying on the path, by the side of the street, which led up in the direction of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll’s, his traveling-bag by his side, his face to the ground. The bag was not touched, neither the watch and money on his person, making it evident that robbery was not the object of the murderer.</p>
			<p>A stab in the back, in the double darkness of night and storm! What enemy had Henry Moreland, to do this deed upon him?</p>
			<p>It is useless now to repeat all the varying conjectures rising in our minds, or which continued to engross the entire community for weeks thereafter. It became at once the favorite theory of many that young Moreland had perished by a stroke intended for some other person. In the meantime, the news swept through the village like a whirlwind, destroying the calmness of that Sabbath morning, tossing the minds of people more fearfully than the material tempest had tossed the frail leaves. Murder! and such a murder in such a place!⁠—not twenty rods from the busiest haunts of men, on a peaceful street⁠—sudden, sure, unprovoked! People looked behind them as they walked, hearing the assassin’s step in every rustle of the breeze. Murder!⁠—the faraway, frightful idea had suddenly assumed a real shape⁠—it seemed to have stalked through the town, entering each dwelling, standing by every hearthstone.</p>
			<p>While the inquest was proceeding, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Argyll and myself were thinking more of Eleanor than of her murdered lover.</p>
			<p>“This is wretched business, Richard,” said the father. “I am so unnerved I can do nothing. Will you telegraph to his parents for me?”</p>
			<p>His parents⁠—here was more misery. I had not thought of them. I wrote out the dreadful message which it ought to have melted the wires with pity to carry.</p>
			<p>“And now you must go to Eleanor. She must not hear it from strangers; and I can not⁠—Richard!⁠—you will tell her, will you not? I will follow you home immediately; as soon as I have made arrangements to have poor Henry brought to our house when the inquest is over.”</p>
			<p>He wrung my hand, looking at me so beseechingly, that, loth as I was, I had no thought of refusing. I felt like one walking with frozen feet as I passed out of the chamber of horror into the peaceful sunlight, along the very path <em>he</em> had last trodden, and over the spot where he had fallen and had lain so many hours undiscovered, around which a crowd was pressing, disturbed, excited, but not noisy. The sandy soil had already filtered the rain, so as to be nearly dry; there was nothing to give a clue to the murderer’s footsteps, whither he went or whence he came⁠—what impress they might have made in the hard, gravelly walk had been washed out by the storm. A few persons were searching carefully for the weapon which had been the instrument of death, and which had been broken in the wound, thinking it might have been cast away in the vicinity.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
